
### **Forms**

**Forms** come in every shape and form (pun intended). From buying something online to using a search engine, forms are a part of everyday digital life.

They're pretty straightforward:

1. The user enters some information.
2. The user presses a “Submit” button.
3. The info gets sent somewhere and processed!

To create a form in HTML, we can use the `<form>`element:

```html
<form action="" method="">
  <!-- More code will go here -->
</form>
```

Two attributes are used with the `<form>` element:

- `action` specifies where the form data is sent after submission.
- `method` specifies how the form data is processed.

It is usually either sent somewhere else via `"post"` or used with something else via `"get"`.

**Note:** For the rest of this chapter, the `action` and `method`attributes will not be featured in the examples. Not to worry, though! The forms will still render just fine. 😀

### **Input Element**

But wait... how do we enter and submit the form data?

In HTML forms, we use the `<input>` element as an **interactive control** for entering data. A `type` attribute is used to determine the kind of input to use. While there are many types of inputs, the two we'll use most often are:
- A `text` value that renders a plain textbox on the form.

```html
<form>
  <input type="text">
</form>
```

- A `submit` value that turns the `<input>` element into a button for submitting the form data.

```html
<form>
  <input type="submit">
</form>
```

**Note:** The `<input>` element uses a self-closing tag.

By default, the text of the `"submit"` input type will say "Submit", but this can be changed by setting a `value`attribute for the `<input>` element:

```html
<input type="submit" value="Submit Form!">
```



