### **Main & Footer**

#### **The Main Content**

Aside from a header/navigation area, many pages also feature an area where all of the **main** information goes.

For this, we use the `<main>` semantic element:

```html
<body>
  <main>
    <!-- Main information goes here -->
  </main>
</body>
```

The content inside of the `<main>` element represents the main topics or ideas shown on the page.

**Note:** There should only be one single `<main>` element in every page.

### **The Footer**

After we've populated our page with the content we want, it's time to finish with a `<footer>` element!

The information in this element usually goes beneath the main content of the page, and it includes:

- The name of the company/creator.
- Some copyright information.
- Additional links to other sections or other sites.

The code looks like this:

```html
<footer>
  <!-- Footer content goes here -->
</footer>
```

The `<footer>` element contains information that is important, but that isn't suitable for the `<header>`element.

###  **Page Sections**

Within the main section of a page are smaller, separate parts. The element we use for this is… you guessed it! The `<section>` element!

We use the `<section>` element to group pieces of related content together.

```html
<main>
  <section>
    <h2>Section A</h2>
  </section>
  <section>
    <h2>Section B</h2>
  </section>
  <section>
    <h2>Section C</h2>
  </section>
</main>
```

**Note:** Unlike the `<main>` element, a page can have multiple `<section>` elements!

In many cases, it makes sense for a heading element (`<h1>`-`<h6>`) to be the first child of a `<section>`element.

We want to explicitly display what each section in the page is about.

### **Single Articles**

Semantic content goes one layer further!

While the `<section>` element groups together pieces of related content, we use the `<article>` element for those singular pieces of content.

The `<article>` element is used like so:

```html
<section>
  <h2>Section Heading</h2>
  <article>
    <h3>Article Heading</h3>
    Piece of content
  </article>
</section>
```

While not required, an `<article>` element should begin with a heading element (much like with a `<section>`element).

You can also nest an `<article>` within another `<article>` element. This is usually done if there is a piece of standalone markup within a single piece of content (e.g., a single comment from a single blog post).

