
## Elements

To understand how HTML works, we need to start with the elements - the smallest building blocks of the language.

An **element** usually consists of an opening tag, the content, and a closing tag. A tag is enclosed in angle brackets.

```html
<p>Hello World!</p>
```

So this is one HTML element where :

- `<p>` is the opening tag.
- `Hello World!` is the content.
- `</p>` is the closing tag.

The `<p>` paragraph element tells the browser that the content inside is "paragraph" text.

Let's take a look at a basic HTML program that displays a message in the browser:

```html
<body>
  <p>👋 I'm a new web developer!</p>
</body>
```

The `<body>` element defines an HTML document's "body" and it's where any content that we want to display to the user will be held:

- `<body>` opening tag begins the "body".
- `<p>👋 I'm a new web developer!</p>` is some text in a paragraph element.
- `</body>` closing tag ends the "body".

> [!NOTE] 
> *There can only be one `<body>` element in a file.*

### **Headings**

Suppose we want to add a headline to our website that displays a news article. Here's how we would do it using a `<h1>` heading element and a `<p>` paragraph element:

```html
<body>
  <h1>Breaking News 🚨</h1>
  <p>Florida man once evaded arrest by cartwheeling now running for mayor.</p>
</body>
```

There are six levels of headings, from `<h1>` to `<h6>`:

```html
<h1>Heading level 1</h1>
<h2>Heading level 2</h2>
<h3>Heading level 3</h3>
<h4>Heading level 4</h4>
<h5>Heading level 5</h5>
<h6>Heading level 6</h6>
```

**Note:** Only one `<h1>` element should be used in a file.

### **Line Break**

Suppose we also want to add a new line within a paragraph element. Pressing enter won't do us any good because HTML ignores multiple spaces and line breaks within elements.

So we must use the `<br>` break tag here!

The `<br>` break tag adds a line break:

```html
<body>
  <h1>Breaking News</h1>
  <p>Florida man robs convenience store with an alligator.<br>Leaves a baby Crocs behind.</p>
</body>
```

A **self-closing tag** doesn't need to be closed manually by a closing tag... it does not have a separate closing `</tag>`. The break tag is the first one we have encountered.