
### **Classes and IDs**

The two attributes we'll come across most are the `class`and `id` attributes. Any element can use them. While `class` and `id` are used for labeling elements, the two have important differences.

An element can be assigned multiple `class` values in the form of a space-separated list:

```html
<p class="first-value second-value third-value">Hello, World</p>
```

Each element can only have one `id` value with no spaces. Every id value should be unique in the entire page:

```html
<p id="value">Hello, World</p>
```

Additionally, `id` can be used to link to another part of the same page, such as the heading! This can be matched with an `<a>` anchor element's `href` attribute via a `#`hashtag symbol, followed by the identifier used for the `id`:

```html
<a href="#medellin">Link to Medellín</a>

<h2 class="city" id="medellin">Medellín 🇨🇴</h2>
```

Lastly, where only one `id` can be assigned to a single element, a `class` can be assigned to many:

```html
<h2 class="city" id="medellin">Medellín 🇨🇴</h2>
<h2 class="city" id="lisbon">Lisbon 🇵🇹</h2>
<h2 class="city" id="bali">Bali 🇮🇩</h2>
```

The values for the `class` and `id` attributes must always be lowercase. If their name is made of multiple words, they should be separated by dashes `-`.

> [!NOTE]
> A good way to remember `class` vs `id` is... there can be multiple students in a _class_, but each student should have a unique _id_. 💡

### **Division Element**

One of the most common ways of creating sections for a page is with the `<div>` element (short for "division").

The `<div>` element is kind of like a generic container with no particular meaning. This element and the `class` and `id` attributes can go hand in hand.

```html
<div class="page-section" id="about-me">
  <h2>About Me</h2>
  <p>Ness is an aspiring web developer!</p>
</div>

<div class="page-section" id="social-media">
  <h2>Social:</h2>
  <ul>
    <li>GitHub</li>
    <li>Twitter</li>
    <li>LinkedIn</li>
  </ul>
</div>
```

The `<div>` element is used to group content and be labeled by the `class` and `id` attributes.