### **Sizing in CSS**

Most HTML elements have a default size, including a height and width. However, we can use CSS to change their size!

Two of the most common sizing properties in CSS are the `width` and `height` properties.

```css
img {
 width: 250px;
 height: 400px;
}
```

###  **Absolute vs. Relative Units**

The kinds of measurements we can give to an element's properties can be split into two groups: **absolute units**and **relative units**.

Absolute units are usually expressed as numbers, with or without a decimal. They are fixed and do not change in size according to the size of its direct parent element.

Meaning, if the value of a property in an element is given in numbers, it will disregard the change of sizes in its direct parent element.

Pixels (`px`) are the most commonly used ones:

```css
element {
  width: 10px;
  height: 10px;
}
```

Other options include points (`pt`) and centimeters (`cm`)

> [!NOTE]
> Be mindful of setting the `height` of a given element with absolute units, as it may cause the content to overflow _outside_ the boundaries of its parent element.

If we set an element's property with relative units, it will change if the size of something else changes, like its parent element or the computer screen itself!

They are often expressed as percentages (e.g., `50%`):

But other frequently-used relative units include:

- `em` measurements that are associated with the font size of either the parent element when applying `font-size` (more on that in the next challenge) or the element itself when setting the `width`.
- `rem` measurements that are associated with the font size of the root `<html>` element (16pt, by default).

Uses for the `em` may include setting a page's text to change according to how a user sets the text size for their browser. For `rem`, this could be used to set the baseline text size for their site.